README.md, before:

# NanoNyms

**Privacy-preserving payments for Nano using stealth addresses and off-chain coordination**


---

## Elevator Pitch

NanoNymNault is a fork of **Nault** (the popular web-based Nano wallet) with an integrated lightweight **Nostr client** that enables **private, unlinkable payments** using a new type of reusable pseudonym called a **NanoNym** (address format: `nnym_`).

### What does it do for users?

**For Recipients (merchants, streamers, donation pages):**
1. Generate one or more **NanoNyms** (displayed as `nnym_abc123...xyz` addresses)
2. Share publicly (on website, social media, stream overlay, printed invoices, etc.)
3. Receive unlimited payments that:
   - All go to different blockchain addresses (unlinkable)
   - Don't reveal your balance
   - Don't show your payment history
4. Your wallet automatically detects incoming payments and shows a unified balance

**For Senders:**
1. Paste recipient's NanoNym (`nnym_` address) into the send field
2. Enter amount and send (just like a normal Nano transaction)
3. Behind the scenes:
   - Wallet derives a unique stealth address for this payment
   - Sends XNO on Nano blockchain (looks like any other transaction)
   - Sends encrypted notification via Nostr (free, instant, private)
4. Recipient automatically receives and can spend funds

---

## Key Benefits

✅ **Privacy:** No one can link multiple payments to the same recipient
✅ **Simplicity:** Recipients share ONE NanoNym (not a new address for each payment)
✅ **Multiple NanoNyms:** Generate as many as needed from a single seed
✅ **Free notifications:** No blockchain bloat or notification transaction costs
✅ **Compatibility:** Falls back to regular `nano_` addresses for non-compliant wallets
✅ **Web-based:** Works in browser, no installation needed (just like Nault)

---

## What is a NanoNym?

**NanoNym** = **Nano** + **onym** (Ancient Greek ὄνυμα "name")

A NanoNym is a **reusable pseudonym** for receiving payments privately. Think of it like:
- A pen name for authors (hides real identity)
- A stage name for performers (public-facing but not your real name)
- A business name (represents you but isn't personally identifiable)

**Technical details:**
- Encoded as `nnym_` addresses (~160 characters)
- Contains three public keys (spend, view, Nostr notification)
- All NanoNyms are structurally identical and infinitely reusable
- Multiple NanoNyms can be derived from a single seed

---

## NanoNym Use Cases

### Use Case 1: Long-Term Public NanoNym
```
Generate: "General Donations"
Print on: Website footer, business card, stream overlay
Use for: Years of recurring donations
```

### Use Case 2: Per-Transaction NanoNym
```
Generate: "Customer #1234 - Invoice #5678"
Display: On checkout screen (ephemeral display)
Use for: Single purchase
Archive: After payment received
```

### Use Case 3: Per-Department NanoNyms
```
Generate: "Sales Q1 2025"
Generate: "Consulting Services"
Generate: "Product Returns"
Use for: Accounting categorization and revenue tracking
```

**All NanoNyms work identically** - the difference is only in how you choose to use them!

---

## How It Works (High Level)

```
Nault Wallet (existing web wallet)
  + Nostr client (lightweight messaging, runs in browser)
  + CamoNano cryptography (proven stealth address math)
  = NanoNymNault (private payment wallet)
```

**Users don't need to:**
- Run a Nostr relay
- Understand Nostr
- Download anything extra
- Change how they use Nano

**It just works** — privacy built-in, seamlessly.

---

## Comparison to Standard Nano

| Feature | Standard Nano Address | NanoNym (`nnym_`) |
|---------|----------------------|-------------------|
| **Address reuse** | Publicly links all transactions | Each payment goes to unique address |
| **Balance privacy** | Anyone can see your balance | Balance hidden across multiple addresses |
| **Sender anonymity** | Sender account visible | Sender can remain anonymous |
| **Multiple addresses from one seed** | Limited by wallet | Unlimited NanoNyms |
| **Notifications** | None needed | Off-chain via Nostr (automatic) |
| **Use case** | General payments | Privacy-conscious users, merchants, donations |

---

## Technical Foundation

NanoNymNault combines three proven technologies:

1. **CamoNano Protocol:** Battle-tested cryptography for stealth addresses (Monero-inspired, adapted for Nano)
2. **Nostr (NIP-17):** Decentralized, encrypted messaging for payment notifications
3. **Nault Wallet:** Mature, trusted web-based Nano wallet

**Key Innovation:** By moving notifications off-chain (via Nostr), we solve CamoNano's timing correlation vulnerability while eliminating notification transaction costs.

---

## Key Management Architecture

### For Nano Users (Current - Recommended)

NanoNymNault uses a **single Nano seed** (BIP-39) to derive all keys:

```
Nano Seed (24 words)
    ↓
    ├─→ Spend Keys (receive & send XNO)
    ├─→ View Keys (detect payments privately)
    └─→ Nostr Keys (receive payment notifications)
```

**Backup:** Just your 24-word Nano seed  
**Recovery:** Fully deterministic - one seed recovers everything

### For Nostr Users (Future - Advanced)

To preserve your existing Nostr identity while adding NanoNym capabilities:

```
Your Nostr nsec        +        Nano Seed
(existing identity)              (new or imported)
       ↓                              ↓
   Nostr Keys          +        Nano Keys
       └─────────────────┬─────────────┘
                         ↓
                   NanoNym v2 Address
```

**Backup:** BOTH your Nostr nsec AND Nano seed  
**Recovery:** Requires both seeds

### Why Two Seeds?

Nano uses Ed25519 curves, Nostr uses Secp256k1 (Bitcoin's curve). These are mathematically incompatible - there's no secure way to derive keys from one curve to another.

**We chose security over convenience.**

### Design Principles

1. **NanoNymNault Wallet** (Nano-first)
   - Never asks for your Nostr nsec
   - Generates Nostr keys internally from Nano seed
   - Simple: One seed backup
   - For users who want a privacy-focused Nano wallet

2. **Future Nostr UIs** (Nostr-first)
   - Uses your existing Nostr identity
   - Asks for Nano seed (generate new or import existing)
   - Advanced: Two seed backup
   - For Nostr users adding NanoZap receiving capability

### Current Status

**Phase 1 (Implemented):** Nano-first flow with v1 addresses  
**Phase 2 (Planned):** Dual-seed support with v2 addresses for Nostr-first users

---

## Project Status

🔨 **In Development** - Planning phase complete, implementation starting

### Documentation

- **[CLAUDE.md](CLAUDE.md)** - Original protocol specification (revised after BIP analysis)
- **[ANALYSIS-CAMONANO-ALTERNATIVES.md](ANALYSIS-CAMONANO-ALTERNATIVES.md)** - Deep dive into CamoNano, BIP protocols, and off-chain notification alternatives

---

## Development Roadmap

### Phase 1: Core Cryptography ✅
- Implement CamoNano key derivation with multi-account support
- `nnym_` address encoding/decoding
- Stealth address generation
- Unit tests for all cryptographic operations

### Phase 2: Nostr Integration ✅
- Integrate Nostr client library (nostr-tools)
- Implement NIP-17 gift-wrapped encryption
- Relay connection and notification handling
- Multi-relay redundancy

### Phase 3: Wallet UI - Send ✅
- Detect and parse `nnym_` addresses
- Send flow with Nostr notification
- Multi-relay status display
- Error handling and retry logic

### Phase 4: Wallet UI - Receive (In Progress)

**Phase 4A: Foundation Services ✅**
- Storage service for NanoNyms and stealth accounts
- Manager service for business logic
- Type definitions and interfaces
- Balance aggregation logic

**Phase 4B: Nostr Notification Processing ✅**
- Background Nostr monitoring
- Automatic notification decryption (NIP-59)
- Stealth address derivation from notifications
- Blockchain verification

**Phase 4C: UI Integration ✅**
- Generate multiple NanoNyms from seed (with labels)
- Display NanoNyms in Receive tab
- Show stealth account list per NanoNym
- Unified balance display across stealth accounts
- Per-NanoNym transaction views
- Archive/reactivate NanoNyms

**Phase 4D: Stealth Account Spending 🔨 (Current Blocker)**
- Import stealth accounts into WalletService for spending
- Account selection algorithm (Section 8.2 of CLAUDE.md)
- Privacy warning UI (Section 8.3 of CLAUDE.md)
- Multi-account send flow
- Privacy Mode (optional delays)

### Phase 5: Advanced Features
- Advanced account selection strategies (FIFO, LIFO, manual control)
- Privacy score calculation and analytics
- Stealth account consolidation (Section 15 of CLAUDE.md)
- Scheduled auto-consolidation

### Phase 6: Testing & Documentation
- Comprehensive testing (unit, integration, e2e)
- User documentation and tutorials

### Phase 7: Launch
- Security review (if budget permits)
- Community launch

---

## Current Status & Next Steps

**✅ What's Working:**
- Sending TO NanoNyms (full flow: generate stealth address → send XNO → send Nostr notification)
- Receiving payments (notifications decrypt, stealth addresses derived, balances displayed)
- NanoNym management (generate, label, archive/reactivate, view details)
- Multi-relay Nostr redundancy (3-5 relays simultaneously)

**❌ Current Blocker: Spending FROM Stealth Accounts**

Location: `src/app/services/nanonym-manager.service.ts:343-348`

```typescript
// TODO: Add stealth account to WalletService
// This will require modifying WalletService to support imported accounts
```

**What needs to be implemented:**
1. **WalletService integration** - Import stealth accounts as spendable accounts
2. **Account selection algorithm** - Choose which stealth accounts to spend from (minimize linkage)
3. **Privacy warning UI** - Warn users when multiple accounts will be linked on-chain
4. **Multi-account send flow** - Coordinate sending from N stealth accounts to 1 destination

**See:** CLAUDE.md Section 8 (Spending from Stealth Accounts) for complete specification.

---

## Security & Privacy

### Privacy Properties

✅ **Against blockchain observers:** Cannot link payments to receiver
✅ **Against Nostr relays:** Cannot read notification contents (NIP-17 encryption)
✅ **Against network observers:** Cannot correlate Nostr activity with Nano transactions
✅ **Against timing analysis:** NIP-17 uses randomized timestamps

### Security Considerations

- All cryptography uses well-audited libraries
- Nostr NIP-17 provides authenticated encryption (AEAD)
- Multi-relay redundancy prevents single point of failure
- View keys can be separated from spend keys (watch-only wallets)
- Single seed backs up unlimited NanoNyms

**Security Audit:** Recommended before mainnet launch (if budget permits)

---

## Getting Started (Coming Soon)

### For Users
```bash
# Installation instructions will be provided when ready
# For now, the project is in active development
```

### For Developers

#### Prerequisites
- **Node.js v16.20.2** (via nvm)
- **Python 3.11** (for native module compilation)

#### Building the Reference Nault Wallet

The project is forked from Nault. To build and run the stock Nault wallet locally:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/NanoNymNault.git
cd NanoNymNault/references/Nault

# Switch to Node v16 (required for native module compatibility)
source ~/.nvm/nvm.sh
nvm use 16

# Install dependencies
# IMPORTANT: Use these exact flags for Apple Silicon compatibility
npm_config_arch=x64 \
PYTHON=/opt/homebrew/opt/python@3.11/bin/python3.11 \
npm ci

# Run development server
npm start
# Access at http://localhost:4200/
```

**Why these specific flags?**
- `npm_config_arch=x64` - Electron 9.4.4 doesn't have ARM64 builds, use Rosetta emulation
- `PYTHON=/opt/homebrew/opt/python@3.11/bin/python3.11` - Python 3.14 removed `distutils` which node-gyp requires
- `npm ci` - Uses exact versions from package-lock.json (not `npm install`)
- `nvm use 16` - Node v16 required for native module (usb, node-hid) C++ compilation

**Troubleshooting:**
- If port 4200 is in use: `lsof -ti:4200 | xargs kill -9`
- If Python error: Install Python 3.11 via `brew install python@3.11`
- If Node version error: Install via `nvm install 16`

#### Testing

**For test running instructions, test strategy, and debugging:** See **[TESTING.md](TESTING.md)**

---

## Contributing

This project is in early development. Contributions, feedback, and testing are welcome!

**Areas where help is needed:**
- Cryptography review (CamoNano implementation)
- Nostr integration testing
- UI/UX design for privacy features
- Documentation and tutorials
- Security auditing

---

## Acknowledgments

**Standing on the shoulders of giants:**

- **Nault Team** - Excellent web-based Nano wallet foundation
- **CamoNano Project** - Pioneering stealth addresses for Nano
  - [nanopyrs](https://github.com/CamoNano/nanopyrs) - Reference implementation
  - [camonanowallet](https://github.com/expiredhotdog/camonanowallet) - First full wallet
- **Monero Community** - Original stealth address inspiration
- **Nostr Protocol** - Decentralized messaging infrastructure
- **Bitcoin BIPs** - Protocol design patterns (BIP-352, BIP-77, BIP-47)

---

## License

[To be determined - likely MIT or similar open-source license]

---

## Contact & Community

- **GitHub Issues:** [Report bugs or suggest features](https://github.com/yourusername/NanoNymNault/issues)
- **Discord:** [Coming soon]
- **Reddit:** r/nanocurrency

---

## Disclaimer

⚠️ **This software is experimental and under active development.**

- Not yet audited by security professionals
- Use at your own risk
- Start with small amounts for testing
- Privacy guarantees depend on proper usage (see documentation)

---

## FAQ

**Q: Is this a new cryptocurrency?**
A: No! NanoNymNault uses the existing Nano (XNO) cryptocurrency. It's just a wallet with enhanced privacy features.

**Q: What's the difference between a NanoNym and a regular Nano address?**
A: A NanoNym is a reusable pseudonym that generates unique stealth addresses for each payment. Regular `nano_` addresses publicly link all transactions.

**Q: Can I generate multiple NanoNyms?**
A: Yes! You can generate unlimited NanoNyms from a single seed. Use them for different purposes (donations, sales, per-customer, etc.).

**Q: Are NanoNyms "ephemeral" or "permanent"?**
A: All NanoNyms are structurally identical and reusable. You decide how to use them - print one for long-term use, or generate unique ones per transaction.

**Q: Do I need to run a Nostr relay?**
A: No. The wallet connects to existing public Nostr relays (1000+ available). You can optionally run your own for extra privacy.

**Q: Will regular Nano wallets be able to send to my NanoNym?**
A: No, only NanoNymNault-compatible wallets can send to NanoNyms (`nnym_` addresses). For compatibility, your wallet will also display a regular `nano_` fallback address (though this won't provide privacy).

**Q: What happens if Nostr notifications fail?**
A: The wallet uses 3-5 relays simultaneously for redundancy. Even if some relays fail, notifications should get through. Senders can also manually resend notifications if needed.

**Q: How is this different from CamoNano?**
A: NanoNymNault uses CamoNano's cryptography but replaces on-chain notifications (which cost XNO 0.00049 and leak timing info) with free, encrypted off-chain Nostr notifications.

**Q: Can I use this for everyday payments?**
A: The primary use case is for recipients who want to share a public address (merchants, donations, streamers) without revealing their payment history. For everyday peer-to-peer payments, standard Nano addresses are simpler.

**Q: Is this more private than Monero?**
A: No. Monero has additional privacy features (ring signatures, confidential amounts) that hide sender, receiver, AND amounts. NanoNymNault only hides receiver unlinkability and optionally sender identity. It's a practical privacy improvement for Nano, not full anonymity.

**Q: How do I back up my NanoNyms?**
A: Your seed phrase backs up ALL NanoNyms automatically. During recovery, the wallet will re-derive all your NanoNyms and scan for payments.

---

## Developer Preview

**Try the latest development version:** https://cbrunnkvist.github.io/NanoNymNault/

This developer preview is automatically deployed from the `main` branch. It reflects the latest implemented features and may contain experimental functionality. Use with caution and test with small amounts only.

---

**Built with 🔐 for the Nano community**

Commit message:

Enhance README with links and clearer descriptions
Updated README to clarify features and provide links.

README.md, after:

# NanoNyms

**Privacy-preserving, reusable, payments codes for [Nano](https://www.nano.org/) using stealth addresses and off-chain coordination**


---

## Elevator Pitch

NanoNymNault is a fork of **[Nault](https://github.com/Nault/Nault)** (the popular web-based Nano wallet) integrating a lightweight **Nostr client** that enables **private, unlinkable payments** over the regular Nano blockchain, using a new type of reusable pseudonym called a **NanoNym** (address prefix: `nnym_`).

### What does it do for users?

**For Recipients (merchants, streamers, donation pages):**
1. Generate one or more **NanoNyms** (displayed as `nnym_abc123...xyz` addresses)
2. Share publicly (on website, social media, stream overlay, printed invoices, etc.)
3. Receive unlimited number of payments through the NanoNym, all that:
   - Go to different blockchain addresses (unlinkable)
   - Don't reveal your balance
   - Don't show your payment history
4. Your wallet automatically detects incoming payments and shows a unified balance

**For Senders:**
1. Paste recipient's NanoNym (`nnym_` address) into the send field (or scan a QR code)
2. Enter amount and send (just like a normal Nano transaction)
3. Behind the scenes:
   - Wallet derives a unique stealth address for this payment
   - Sends XNO on Nano blockchain (looks like any other transaction)
   - Sends encrypted notification via Nostr (free, instant, private)
4. Recipient automatically receives and can spend funds

It's a true _win-win_ for both senders and receivers: both gain significantly enhanced privacy protection, without any involvement of third-party payment processors or fees.

---

## Key Benefits

✅ **Privacy:** No one can link multiple payments to the same recipient
✅ **Simplicity:** Recipients share ONE NanoNym (not a new address for each payment)
✅ **Multiple NanoNyms:** Generate as many as needed from a single seed
✅ **Free notifications:** No blockchain bloat or notification transaction costs
✅ **Compatibility:** Falls back to regular `nano_` addresses for non-compliant wallets
✅ **Web-based:** Works in browser, no installation needed (just like Nault)

---

## What is a NanoNym?

**NanoNym** = **Nano** + **onym** (Ancient Greek ὄνυμα "name")

A NanoNym is a **reusable pseudonym** for receiving payments privately. Think of it like:
- A pen name for authors (hides real identity)
- A stage name for performers (public-facing but not your real name)
- A business name (represents you but isn't personally identifiable)

**Technical details:**
- Encoded as `nnym_` addresses (~160 characters)
- Contains three public keys (spend, view, Nostr notification)
- All NanoNyms are structurally identical and infinitely reusable
- Multiple NanoNyms can be derived from a single seed

---

## NanoNym Use Cases

### Use Case 1: Long-Term Public NanoNym
```
Generate: "General Donations"
Print on: Website footer, business card, stream overlay
Use for: Years of recurring donations
```

### Use Case 2: Per-Transaction NanoNym
```
Generate: "Customer #1234 - Invoice #5678"
Display: On checkout screen (ephemeral display)
Use for: Single purchase
Archive: After payment received
```

### Use Case 3: Per-Department NanoNyms
```
Generate: "Sales Q1 2025"
Generate: "Consulting Services"
Generate: "Product Returns"
Use for: Accounting categorization and revenue tracking
```

**All NanoNyms work identically** - the difference is only in how you choose to use them!

---

## How It Works (High Level)

```
Nault Wallet (existing web wallet)
  + Nostr client (lightweight messaging, runs in browser)
  + CamoNano cryptography (proven stealth address math)
  = NanoNymNault (private payment wallet)
```

**Users don't need to:**
- Run a Nostr relay
- Understand Nostr
- Download anything extra
- Change how they use Nano

**It just works** — privacy built-in, seamlessly.

---

## Comparison to Standard Nano

| Feature | Standard Nano Address | NanoNym (`nnym_`) |
|---------|----------------------|-------------------|
| **Address reuse** | Publicly links all transactions | Each payment goes to unique address |
| **Balance privacy** | Anyone can see your balance | Balance hidden across multiple addresses |
| **Sender anonymity** | Sender account visible | Sender can remain anonymous |
| **Multiple addresses from one seed** | Limited by wallet | Unlimited NanoNyms |
| **Notifications** | None needed | Off-chain via Nostr (automatic) |
| **Use case** | General payments | Privacy-conscious users, merchants, donations |

---

## Technical Foundation

NanoNymNault combines three proven technologies:

1. **CamoNano Protocol:** Battle-tested cryptography for stealth addresses (Monero-inspired, adapted for Nano)
2. **Nostr (NIP-17):** Decentralized, encrypted messaging for payment notifications
3. **Nault Wallet:** Mature, trusted web-based Nano wallet

**Key Innovation:** By moving notifications off-chain (via Nostr), we solve CamoNano's timing correlation vulnerability while eliminating notification transaction costs.

---

## Key Management Architecture

### For Nano Users (Current - Recommended)

NanoNymNault uses a **single Nano seed** (BIP-39) to derive all keys:

```
Nano Seed (24 words)
    ↓
    ├─→ Spend Keys (receive & send XNO)
    ├─→ View Keys (detect payments privately)
    └─→ Nostr Keys (receive payment notifications)
```

**Backup:** Just your 24-word Nano seed  
**Recovery:** Fully deterministic - one seed recovers everything

### For Nostr Users (Future - Advanced)

To preserve your existing Nostr identity while adding NanoNym capabilities:

```
Your Nostr nsec        +        Nano Seed
(existing identity)              (new or imported)
       ↓                              ↓
   Nostr Keys          +        Nano Keys
       └─────────────────┬─────────────┘
                         ↓
                   NanoNym v2 Address
```

**Backup:** BOTH your Nostr nsec AND Nano seed  
**Recovery:** Requires both seeds

### Why Two Seeds?

Nano uses Ed25519 curves, Nostr uses Secp256k1 (Bitcoin's curve). These are mathematically incompatible - there's no secure way to derive keys from one curve to another.

**We chose security over convenience.**

### Design Principles

1. **NanoNymNault Wallet** (Nano-first)
   - Never asks for your Nostr nsec
   - Generates Nostr keys internally from Nano seed
   - Simple: One seed backup
   - For users who want a privacy-focused Nano wallet

2. **Future Nostr UIs** (Nostr-first)
   - Uses your existing Nostr identity
   - Asks for Nano seed (generate new or import existing)
   - Advanced: Two seed backup
   - For Nostr users adding NanoZap receiving capability

### Current Status

**Phase 1 (Implemented):** Nano-first flow with v1 addresses  
**Phase 2 (Planned):** Dual-seed support with v2 addresses for Nostr-first users

---

## Project Status

🔨 **In Development** - Planning phase complete, implementation starting

### Documentation

- **[CLAUDE.md](CLAUDE.md)** - Original protocol specification (revised after BIP analysis)
- **[ANALYSIS-CAMONANO-ALTERNATIVES.md](ANALYSIS-CAMONANO-ALTERNATIVES.md)** - Deep dive into CamoNano, BIP protocols, and off-chain notification alternatives

---

## Development Roadmap

### Phase 1: Core Cryptography ✅
- Implement CamoNano key derivation with multi-account support
- `nnym_` address encoding/decoding
- Stealth address generation
- Unit tests for all cryptographic operations

### Phase 2: Nostr Integration ✅
- Integrate Nostr client library (nostr-tools)
- Implement NIP-17 gift-wrapped encryption
- Relay connection and notification handling
- Multi-relay redundancy

### Phase 3: Wallet UI - Send ✅
- Detect and parse `nnym_` addresses
- Send flow with Nostr notification
- Multi-relay status display
- Error handling and retry logic

### Phase 4: Wallet UI - Receive (In Progress)

**Phase 4A: Foundation Services ✅**
- Storage service for NanoNyms and stealth accounts
- Manager service for business logic
- Type definitions and interfaces
- Balance aggregation logic

**Phase 4B: Nostr Notification Processing ✅**
- Background Nostr monitoring
- Automatic notification decryption (NIP-59)
- Stealth address derivation from notifications
- Blockchain verification

**Phase 4C: UI Integration ✅**
- Generate multiple NanoNyms from seed (with labels)
- Display NanoNyms in Receive tab
- Show stealth account list per NanoNym
- Unified balance display across stealth accounts
- Per-NanoNym transaction views
- Archive/reactivate NanoNyms

**Phase 4D: Stealth Account Spending 🔨 (Current Blocker)**
- Import stealth accounts into WalletService for spending
- Account selection algorithm (Section 8.2 of CLAUDE.md)
- Privacy warning UI (Section 8.3 of CLAUDE.md)
- Multi-account send flow
- Privacy Mode (optional delays)

### Phase 5: Advanced Features
- Advanced account selection strategies (FIFO, LIFO, manual control)
- Privacy score calculation and analytics
- Stealth account consolidation (Section 15 of CLAUDE.md)
- Scheduled auto-consolidation

### Phase 6: Testing & Documentation
- Comprehensive testing (unit, integration, e2e)
- User documentation and tutorials

### Phase 7: Launch
- Security review (if budget permits)
- Community launch

---

## Current Status & Next Steps

**✅ What's Working:**
- Sending TO NanoNyms (full flow: generate stealth address → send XNO → send Nostr notification)
- Receiving payments (notifications decrypt, stealth addresses derived, balances displayed)
- NanoNym management (generate, label, archive/reactivate, view details)
- Multi-relay Nostr redundancy (3-5 relays simultaneously)

**❌ Current Blocker: Spending FROM Stealth Accounts**

Location: `src/app/services/nanonym-manager.service.ts:343-348`

```typescript
// TODO: Add stealth account to WalletService
// This will require modifying WalletService to support imported accounts
```

**What needs to be implemented:**
1. **WalletService integration** - Import stealth accounts as spendable accounts
2. **Account selection algorithm** - Choose which stealth accounts to spend from (minimize linkage)
3. **Privacy warning UI** - Warn users when multiple accounts will be linked on-chain
4. **Multi-account send flow** - Coordinate sending from N stealth accounts to 1 destination

**See:** CLAUDE.md Section 8 (Spending from Stealth Accounts) for complete specification.

---

## Security & Privacy

### Privacy Properties

✅ **Against blockchain observers:** Cannot link payments to receiver
✅ **Against Nostr relays:** Cannot read notification contents (NIP-17 encryption)
✅ **Against network observers:** Cannot correlate Nostr activity with Nano transactions
✅ **Against timing analysis:** NIP-17 uses randomized timestamps

### Security Considerations

- All cryptography uses well-audited libraries
- Nostr NIP-17 provides authenticated encryption (AEAD)
- Multi-relay redundancy prevents single point of failure
- View keys can be separated from spend keys (watch-only wallets)
- Single seed backs up unlimited NanoNyms

**Security Audit:** Recommended before mainnet launch (if budget permits)

---

## Getting Started (Coming Soon)

### For Users
```bash
# Installation instructions will be provided when ready
# For now, the project is in active development
```

### For Developers

#### Prerequisites
- **Node.js v16.20.2** (via nvm)
- **Python 3.11** (for native module compilation)

#### Building the Reference Nault Wallet

The project is forked from Nault. To build and run the stock Nault wallet locally:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/NanoNymNault.git
cd NanoNymNault/references/Nault

# Switch to Node v16 (required for native module compatibility)
source ~/.nvm/nvm.sh
nvm use 16

# Install dependencies
# IMPORTANT: Use these exact flags for Apple Silicon compatibility
npm_config_arch=x64 \
PYTHON=/opt/homebrew/opt/python@3.11/bin/python3.11 \
npm ci

# Run development server
npm start
# Access at http://localhost:4200/
```

**Why these specific flags?**
- `npm_config_arch=x64` - Electron 9.4.4 doesn't have ARM64 builds, use Rosetta emulation
- `PYTHON=/opt/homebrew/opt/python@3.11/bin/python3.11` - Python 3.14 removed `distutils` which node-gyp requires
- `npm ci` - Uses exact versions from package-lock.json (not `npm install`)
- `nvm use 16` - Node v16 required for native module (usb, node-hid) C++ compilation

**Troubleshooting:**
- If port 4200 is in use: `lsof -ti:4200 | xargs kill -9`
- If Python error: Install Python 3.11 via `brew install python@3.11`
- If Node version error: Install via `nvm install 16`

#### Testing

**For test running instructions, test strategy, and debugging:** See **[TESTING.md](TESTING.md)**

---

## Contributing

This project is in early development. Contributions, feedback, and testing are welcome!

**Areas where help is needed:**
- Cryptography review (CamoNano implementation)
- Nostr integration testing
- UI/UX design for privacy features
- Documentation and tutorials
- Security auditing

---

## Acknowledgments

**Standing on the shoulders of giants:**

- **Nault Team** - Excellent web-based Nano wallet foundation
- **CamoNano Project** - Pioneering stealth addresses for Nano
  - [nanopyrs](https://github.com/CamoNano/nanopyrs) - Reference implementation
  - [camonanowallet](https://github.com/expiredhotdog/camonanowallet) - First full wallet
- **Monero Community** - Original stealth address inspiration
- **Nostr Protocol** - Decentralized messaging infrastructure
- **Bitcoin BIPs** - Protocol design patterns (BIP-352, BIP-77, BIP-47)

---

## License

[To be determined - likely MIT or similar open-source license]

---

## Contact & Community

- **GitHub Issues:** [Report bugs or suggest features](https://github.com/yourusername/NanoNymNault/issues)
- **Discord:** [Coming soon]
- **Reddit:** r/nanocurrency

---

## Disclaimer

⚠️ **This software is experimental and under active development.**

- Not yet audited by security professionals
- Use at your own risk
- Start with small amounts for testing
- Privacy guarantees depend on proper usage (see documentation)

---

## FAQ

**Q: Is this a new cryptocurrency?**
A: No! NanoNymNault uses the existing Nano (XNO) cryptocurrency. It's just a wallet with enhanced privacy features.

**Q: What's the difference between a NanoNym and a regular Nano address?**
A: A NanoNym is a reusable pseudonym that generates unique stealth addresses for each payment. Regular `nano_` addresses publicly link all transactions.

**Q: Can I generate multiple NanoNyms?**
A: Yes! You can generate unlimited NanoNyms from a single seed. Use them for different purposes (donations, sales, per-customer, etc.).

**Q: Are NanoNyms "ephemeral" or "permanent"?**
A: All NanoNyms are structurally identical and reusable. You decide how to use them - print one for long-term use, or generate unique ones per transaction.

**Q: Do I need to run a Nostr relay?**
A: No. The wallet connects to existing public Nostr relays (1000+ available). You can optionally run your own for extra privacy.

**Q: Will regular Nano wallets be able to send to my NanoNym?**
A: No, only NanoNymNault-compatible wallets can send to NanoNyms (`nnym_` addresses). For compatibility, your wallet will also display a regular `nano_` fallback address (though this won't provide privacy).

**Q: What happens if Nostr notifications fail?**
A: The wallet uses 3-5 relays simultaneously for redundancy. Even if some relays fail, notifications should get through. Senders can also manually resend notifications if needed.

**Q: How is this different from CamoNano?**
A: NanoNymNault uses CamoNano's cryptography but replaces on-chain notifications (which cost XNO 0.00049 and leak timing info) with free, encrypted off-chain Nostr notifications.

**Q: Can I use this for everyday payments?**
A: The primary use case is for recipients who want to share a public address (merchants, donations, streamers) without revealing their payment history. For everyday peer-to-peer payments, standard Nano addresses are simpler.

**Q: Is this more private than Monero?**
A: No. Monero has additional privacy features (ring signatures, confidential amounts) that hide sender, receiver, AND amounts. NanoNymNault only hides receiver unlinkability and optionally sender identity. It's a practical privacy improvement for Nano, not full anonymity.

**Q: How do I back up my NanoNyms?**
A: Your seed phrase backs up ALL NanoNyms automatically. During recovery, the wallet will re-derive all your NanoNyms and scan for payments.

---

## Developer Preview

**Try the latest development version:** https://cbrunnkvist.github.io/NanoNymNault/

This developer preview is automatically deployed from the `main` branch. It reflects the latest implemented features and may contain experimental functionality. Use with caution and test with small amounts only.

---

**Built with 🔐 for the Nano community**
